# Should you do i18n and l10n right away?

Yes!


# Why?

If there is _any_ chance your project might need to go multi-lingual at some point, do your self the favor and start with
doing i18n as soon as you can. The first step is the simplest anyway: just add `trans` tags to your templates and
`gettext` markers to the strings in your code. You don't have to do anything else. If you have i18n disabled, these will
do nothing, you'll see your strings as before. But once you start doing translations, you won't have to go through _every
file_ in your project multiple times (because you missed lots of strings on the first go), which is both boring and
error-prone.

Just do yourself the favor and start right away.


# Projects that will go multi-lingual at some point

You might think your project doesn't need this. You may be right. But you're probably wrong. Here are some kinds of
projects that will profit from i18n at some point:

* a project that is open source: Open-Source users are all around the world. You don't even have to do translations
  yourself!
* a project that has more than one user in more than one location: One of your users will tell their friends about it
  and they'll be non-native language speakers.
* a commercial project: you want money from users? Show them the right language!

So, sure, if you're writing a website for some newspaper in some small-time town in Kansas, you might get away without
doing i18n. But even then, your site might be so successful that others want to copy it, _and then what?_
